so here I am today managing to catch up
with Andrew Butler before he disappears
back to South Africa for a short time in
Helen and marks lab and Andrew so what I
want to know is how long have you been
an animal rights activist then Oh ages
probably about 13 or 14 years now yeah
33 and when I was about 17 or so I saw
pigs being slaughtered and that really
did it for me before that time I hadn't
really thought about animals in any sort
of meaningful way I hadn't even really
thought about the fact that i was eating
animals every day but I've grown up with
animals I've spent my early years in
South Africa so I had seen all sorts of
remarkable animals I'd seen elephants
and giraffes and sorts of things that a
lot of people don't get to see ever so I
had to think a natural affinity for
animals to begin with and I was already
interested in the environment but
actually seeing what happens to animals
on factory farms and slaughterhouses and
for cosmetic industry and for the
cosmetic industry absolutely shocked me
and at that point i decided i was going
to really focus on on that issue and do
it full time so that's when you went to
work for Peter that's right when i was
21 i went and worked for peter and i
work for them for 10 years peter or the
world's largest animal rights
organization it stands for people for
the ethical treatment of animals and I
did all sorts of things for them crazy
stunts dressing up in all sorts of
animal costumes does I've been a chicken
a fish and lobster and even naked eye
here naked quite a few times so tell me
what sort of things have you been
involved with den since you've joined us
a lot the two main things that we've
done so far as we ran an install
campaign where we had a lightbox in
every window saying vote here against
animal is that just in the UK or we did
that it was throughout the e use every
EU country where we had stores we had
this campaign where people with signing
postcards to the European Commission
asking them to stop animals being used
in this massive chemical testing program
and potentially we were talking about 40
million animals being used
over a period of about 15 years in this
chemical testing program we managed to
collect tens of thousands of postcards
to mep s which we sent off and then i
went to Strasburg just to sort of really
hammer the point home and I attempted to
dump a couple of tons of manure saying
that 45 million animals are shitting
themselves at the reach that I think
that was a wonderful campaign because it
really got the point across because
although we sent out those little bags
we sent out a little bags of chocolate
raisins to the MPS for their me Peas
yeah um but a lot of them didn't even
get the point did they well some of them
didn't yeah we also got some tremendous
responses from MEP s who got the joke
but they also got the issue and they
said that they had been working very
very hard to try and make sure that
animals weren't used in reach and the
legislation has actually now passed it's
going to come into force in June this
year but there are lots of provisions
within the law that say that alternative
should be used where possible that
alternatives need to be developed is
it's still a very very dicey situation
for those animals it could still mean
that millions and millions of animals
suffer and die in these toxicity tests
but I am more optimistic now now that
that we got involved animal rights
groups from throughout Europe teamed up
with us a lot of people have worked very
hard on this campaign and I think that
there is now this real desire to to move
away from using animal tests in reach
and some of the chemicals companies
themselves have started developing non
animal tests specifically because of
reach but at the same time people do
need to be aware that their arsenal
companies out there that are testing on
animals lush have fantastic policy
against animal testing it's actually
unique in its field it tries to get
manufacturers and suppliers to actively
stop testing on animals and we reward
them when they do by offering them our
business and the other animal testing
policies out there have their own merits
and their own benefits but ours is
applying pressure on people who are
still testing on animals in a very
specific and focused way and we're going
to join up with Peter
we in the UK actually only to do a
campaign that they're doing for their
hats for our horse guards that's right
each cap takes one to two bears to make
actual Canadian black bears a lot of
people think that they're made of
synthetic fur made up of both Oh even
some of the guards that I've spoken to
our adamant that they are but that's
simply not the case hundreds of bears
are used every year to make new cap sort
of worn out or to repair all the caps
and so we're really pushing the mod2 use
faux fur when does that go in is April
it's much like i think it's mid march
we're going to have these posters in
there you can also wear and then they'll
they'll be leaflets they'll be petitions
and hopefully we'll take that them to
Canada US Australia you know we're
really hoping that will actually go
further than the UK Andrew thank you
okay I hope you've all found that as
interesting as I have and I'm so excited
that Andrew has decided to join lush I
think that's excellent Andrew thank you
very much thank you